If immigration reform
was the centerpiece
of your entire campaign
and you were maybe
going to shut down
the whole government over it,
it would help if you knew
any of those things
instead of this.
Cancel the lottery program.
They call it visa lottery.
I just call it lottery.
Where countries come in
and they put names in a hopper.
They're not giving you
their best names.
Common sense means they're not
giving you their best names.
They're giving you people
that they don't want,
and then we take them
out of the lo-lottery.
And where they do it by hand,
where they put the hand
in a bowl,
like, probably
what's in their hand
are the worst of the worst.
But they put people that
they don't want into a lottery,
and the United States
takes those people.
You know,
sometimes Trump is so stupid
that it's not funny.
The names are in a bowl?
There's 15 million applications,
and it's all online.
This is not some scam
where other countries
send America
their worst individuals, right?
People apply,
and then after vetting them,
the U.S. State Department
chooses who comes in.
Trump makes it sound
like there's just some dude
on the local news like,
"Your lucky immigrants tonight:
"Rizwan, Shakir, Masiko,
and your power immigrant,
El Chapo!"
(laughter)
So, either Trump is lying
about the visa lottery,
or he's a dumbass
who doesn't know how it works.
And I really don't know
which one it is.
So, let's move on
to the other immigration program
that Trump desperately wants
to end: chain migration,
which, according to him,
goes a little something
like this.
Chain migration
is one of the disasters.
-You allow one person in,
-Yeah.
and that one person
brings in ten or 12 people.
The individuals right now
who are receiving green cards,
they can bring in, say,
an elderly relative
who could immediately
go on to...
um, public assistance
if they become unable
to support themselves
financially.
And then that person
can bring in a relative
who could bring in a relative
who can bring in a relative,
and that's why they call it
chain migration.
Okay, okay, okay.
Slow down, daytime Dracula.
You've got everything
right there
except the facts.
Because he makes it sound
like the minute an immigrant
gets a green card,
they can bring
their whole village with them.
Sort of like this.
(whistles)
(all shouting)
For Trump,
that was based on a true story.
But here's the thing.
If you have a green card,
you can't just bring
your whole family.
You can only bring
your unmarried children
and your spouse.
And even if you go on
to become a U.S. citizen,
the time it takes to bring
your family is a lot longer
than Donny and the Trumpettes
make it sound.
If you're a legal resident
filing for your adult child,
the wait time
for that adult child
is roughly nine years.
If you're a U.S. citizen
filing for a sibling,
uh, the wait time
is roughly 13 years
for them to get a visa,
and that time is even longer
if you're from China, India
or the Philippines,
and so... a-and Mexico.
And for some of them,
that wait time
pushes at 20 years.
That's right,
it could take up to 20 years
to bring a foreign family member
to live with you in the U.S.
Which, for some relatives,
is going to mean
some hard choices.
It's like,
"Grandma, look, I love you.
"But 20 years, I mean...
"It's a lot of paperwork,
and, I mean,
"I don't know if you're going
to make it, and...
I'm just saying."
Look, the bottom line
is Trump wants
to cut immigration in half
by any means necessary.
And, again,
not just illegal immigration.
Legal, lawful immigration.
Yeah, he wants
to kick the brown out of town.
So if you're from El Salvador,
you ain't welcome no more.
If you're from Haiti,
bye-bye, lady.
If you're
from the Philippines...
Look, rhymes are not
what we're here for, all right?
The point is Trump wants
fewer immigrants
coming into the U.S.
And while facts
haven't always been his friend,
there's always one tool
he always knows
how to use: fear.
People come in,
and they're not
necessarily good.
Like the man that ran over...
the animal that ran over
many people
in New York City the other day.
According to chain migration,
he may have as many as 22
to 24 people
that came in with him.
-His grandfather,
his grandmother, -(booing)
his mother, his father,
his brothers, his sisters.
We have to end chain migration.
-We have to end chain migration.
-(cheering and applause)
Okay, once again,
that's not true.
The New York bike terrorist
was here on a green card,
so he couldn't bring
his grandmother,
his grandfather,
his brothers and sisters.
But Trump is using
his fictionalized version
of the story to crack down
on all immigration.
And, look, the truth is
I see what's happening here.
First, they said no
to illegal immigrants,
and now they have a problem
with legal immigrants coming in.
I mean, I know they say
they're not coming for us
if we're already here legally,
but the way this is going,
we may want to get on Pornhub
one last time,
because time may be running out.